---
layout: 2018-abstract
title: "Streaming analytics: How to Get Fast Predictions From Real-Time Data with Flink, Kafka, and Cassandra"
by: Bas Geerdink
affiliation: ING
profpic-class: bas_geerdink
---

[@bgeerdink](https://twitter.com/bgeerdink)
<br/>

### Abstract

Streaming Analytics (or Fast Data) is becoming an increasingly popular
subject in enterprise organizations. The reason for this is that
customers want to have real-time experiences, such as notifications
and advise based on their online behavior and other usersâ€™ actions.

In this talk, Bas will present a streaming analytics engine that is
powered by Apache Flink and written in Scala. Kafka is used for the
message bus and Cassandra for the state management. The machine
learning models are made with Knime and Spark, exported to PMML
format, and evaluated using the Openscoring.io library. Bas will
explain the architecture of the framework, demonstrate how to do the
setup and integration of Flink jobs and show code examples of typical
streaming concepts such as event time, windows, watermarks, and
exactly-once processing.

After this session, the attendees will have a good overview of a
typical streaming analytics solution and have a better understanding
of Apache Flink as a key data streaming technology. Moreover, concepts
that might seem vague and complex have been explained with code
examples to lower the threshold for creating fast data applications.

### Bio

Bas is a programmer, scientist, and IT manager. At ING, he works as
Technology Lead in the global innovation center. Bas has a background
in software development, design and architecture with a broad
technical view from C++ to Prolog to Scala. He occasionally teaches
programming courses and is a regular speaker on conferences and
informal meetings, where he brings a mixture of market context, his
own vision, business cases, architecture and source code in an
enthusiastic way towards his audience.

